the vehicle that I've got in the shop
the data I'm going to show you a couple
things on is actually a 2015 ram 1500
series the procedure I'm going to show
you pretty much to work on believe 2014
as well it can be a 3500 4500 5500 I
want to go ahead and show you about the
rear field filter around 2014 they went
ahead and added two fuel filters one
upfront one in the rear
both of them have drains both of them
have water sensors in them as well and
some of them are located a little
different places someone will be right
above the rear driveshaft right near the
differential magnitude almost close to
the bottom of the bed and some of them
are going to be on the left / drivers
frame rail about midway back you'll see
it located there it's a this one's
actually a metal spin off almost like an
old filter but it has a bottom opening
where the drain as well as the water and
fuel since it will go I'm running
through step by step how to get that off
so let's go ahead and get started
alright so we're back up under the
vehicle we've located our rear fuel
filter like I said here's the actual
drain on the bottom matter of turning it
counterclockwise they attach a hose if
you want or if you get a catch pain
trickling fire like I do you can go
ahead and drain it now what you're going
to have to do is disconnect this water
and fuel sensor is followed up where it
goes squeeze in on the tap
pull it off to where you get to it now
we're going to go ahead and separate the
drain slash water and fuel portion of
the filter while it's still on the
vehicle
that way we can grab it tightly if
anything from a crescent wrench for
example or slip joint pliers I'll get it
off with filters in place when we're on
the word Beaufort honey
now it looks like those already drained
out well once we remove that sensor is
actually going draw is he on actually
have more fuel come out so we go ahead
and tighten it up move on
taking the filter water fuel center off
it is plastic so don't over squeeze or
over-tighten and it has this home seal
that still actually comes with the
filter as well
all right this one actually didn't have
too much come out afterwards but here we
go
now we get the metal canister oh I
actually use an old-style old filter
band clamp actually don't have a number
on this to tell you what the diameter is
put you probably when you buy your
filter you can go to your local parts
store or kind of match it up to what
will fit if we tighten down these going
to be really tight so just take your
time and you plants gonna fit around the
bottom and online it starts spinning
counterclockwise now you go get more
fuel coming out again just go ahead and
let some that drain
say we can go ahead are you going to
live and loop on the o-ring on my filter
so we go to install it you got to get a
little bit of push up are you spinning
it I like to go hand tight and then also
like to tighten up little bit warm with
that theme plant not over tighten but
just enough feel like is snug all right
now it's just a matter of putting the
new o-ring on that water and fuel
go ahead install that
all right and when you straight back up
in there
taking care makes your meal cross-thread
there's plastic
a little tricky that want to get on the
right
here we go
don't snow get down by not overtighten
is you'll want to avoid anything on its
sensor
yes enough be snug
and not causally
now we're just about to connect her back
up plug in and she drains clothes
now these trucks into 6-7 that have the
two fuel filters it's actually going to
be a display on your instrument cluster
it gives an interval as well as a
message when it is due to be changed so
we would to make sure to reset that once
we get back on the ground that means
also at the same time you'll be doing
both filters check out my video I showed
previously that has the fuel filter on
the front being replaced
so with that along with this rear one
you'll have both of them knocked out
doesn't take much time anybody can do it
and when you go to crank it up the video
I showed on the front fuel filters I
mentioned that it may take a few
spinning over cycles cool finally fills
up both the rear filter and the front
filter and gets all the air out of the
system you could be looking at
approximately 3/4 crank attempts and
let's say each crank attempt might last
about pipe I wouldn't let it last one
more about 5 seconds at most cut it off
redo it again cut it up feel the filing
starts up and runs by itself with that I
always appreciate you watching my videos
always stay tuned for more and please
make sure you subscribe when where you
can get notified for more videos on
Seguin thank you very much